May 11, 2018
The Guest
youtube.com/watch?v=oAQe1NEeXBc
twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/994953666955182081
redlettermedia.com/the-guest-review

Jay: Hello, and welcome to reView. Uh, this time I am joined by Simon Barrett, who wrote, uh, You're Next, and The Guest. We're going to be specifically talking about The Guest. Uh, but, before we get into that, I would like to thank you for You're Next, and being, uh, at least partially responsible for bringing, uh, Barbara Crampton out of acting retirement.
Simon: Oh, um...yeah, well, thank, thank you very much. She's, she's very kind about that. I thought you were gonna thank me for the Blair Witch reboot, but that didn't go the way I was expecting.
Jay: Why would I do that?
Simon: Oh. Yeah.
Jay: Uh, we're here to talk about The Guest, which was your follow-up to You're Next. Um, back when, I'm sure back when you made the movie, you had to do, like, press stuff, and you had your little, uh, blurb explaining what the movie was about. Do you remember what that would be?
Simon: Yeah.
Jay: How do you explain this movie? Maybe we should say we're gonna spoil the whole movie.
Simon: Oh.
Jay: So if you haven't seen it, go out and see it first.
Simon: Which, the chances are really good that you haven't, um, because I see, I see the numbers. Um, yeah, we were, like, uh, oh, god, I had a log line that was actually, like, pretty good. Um, it didn't necessarily represent the film, but I think, like, to submit it to Sun Dance, I wrote, like, um, but I made it sound, like, like, um, like, like one of those, like, uh, In the Valley of Elah-type movies. It was like a, it's like a grieving family, like, whose son died in Afghanistan are visited by a mysterious stranger who, like, tries to improve their lives. Um, you know, I think in our, in our mind, we were kind of making, like, the good version of, of those, like, kind of sanctimonious, like, post-Iraq War movies that no one saw except us, like, like, you know, that was like a whole little sub-genre, like Stop-Loss, uh, Home, Home for the Holidays is not the one I'm thinking of. What's the one with the...
Jay: Holly Hunter movie?
Simon: Yeah, which is, which is actually, the Holly Hunter movie's quite good. What's the one...
Jay: Her character is very similar to, to the David character in, uh, The Guest.
Simon: Home for the Holidays is a big, big reference point for The Guest, but, uh, what's the one with 50 Cent and Jessica Biel?
Jay: Is that a thing?
Simon: You know, at that point in our career, I was really motivated by the sense of, like, trying to discover a sub-genre that I liked in theory, but didn't like in practice, um, and then trying to do something with that. Obviously, with You're Next, it was, uh, home invasion films, which, um, I, I, I mean, I love, like, Eels and The Strangers, and stuff like that, but it really felt like that genre hadn't done anything new that wasn't, like, being satirized by, like, funny games back in 1997. And in particular, I remember, um, Colin Geddes, who was a programmer at the Toronto Film Festival saying that, like, he'd seen 20 films that year that were all about people being tied to chairs. And I was like, what if I made a home invasion movie in which no one is tied to a chair. And that was literally, like, the birth of You're Next, so it's, like, oh, and it'll be more like an Agatha Christie bring up baby-type thing. So, with The Guest, it kind of was, I was, like, like, like, Adam was kind of was, um, grooving on, like, Halloween and Terminator, and, and had this, like, killer robot idea. And meanwhile, I'd, I'd had this script, which was much more of a depressing indie thing, which was, like, this family who's son dies, and a stranger shows up and, and when you find out in that script is that he, like, served with their son but they, like, hated each other, and he, like, murdered their son and has come to take, like, further revenge on him by, like, killing his family. And I got about 60 pages in, and then was, like, even I don't wanna see this movie. Like, like, which was, I mean, you know, it was an unusually punishing, depressing script, like, even for me. Um, and so I just abandoned it, and it was called The Guest, and I decided to not finish it. Um, and that was years, that was, like, before we did A Horrible Way to Die. I'd, I'd started writing that in, like, 2007. And then Adam was, like, I wanna do, like, like, Halloween III meets Terminator, and I was, like, how about if, like, I was, like, I was, I have a great idea, like, just give me a few weeks and I'll write it. And then I went back to that script, and I threw it out, and I started over, and I was, like, what if he's Michael Myers meets the Terminator, um, but played by Dan Stevens from Downton Abbey. The hurdle, and I think Adam said this a bunch, too, so I might just be riffing off Adam here, the hurdle in the film wasn't believing that he was tough. The hurdle was believing that the family would invite him in. Like, like, if, if, for example, Jason Statham play-, was playing that character, and he shows up, and he's, like, I knew your son, like, like, you wouldn't believe for a second that she'd be, like, come stay with, like, me and my teenage daughter.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: Like, like, you know, but Matthew Crawley from Downton Abbey shows up doing a charming, uh, you know, like, Kentucky accent...
Jay: That's, yeah, no, his, his performance is really, I mean, that's what makes the movie. And, like, yeah, when he comes in at the beginning, he's so charming, and they just welcome him. And I love, like, after you're introduced to him, he's introduced to all the family members, and then they're, like, oh, you know, go, you know, make yourself comefortable, leave you in this bedroom, and just, he sits on, just, like, immediately shuts down.
Simon: Yeah, yeah. Yeah, that was literally it, yeah.
Jay: He sits on that bed, staring at the wall, and that's when you're, like, what, what is up with this guy.
Simon: Yeah, I mean, I think that the idea there was, was again, like, he just wouldn't expend calories if he didn't have to.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: So he doesn't have to do anything, so he just shuts down. Um, I mean, there was a draft of the script where he was more overtly, uh, I don't, I don't share this often, but it's long enough now that I can start talking about these things. I mean, there was a draft of the script where he was more overtly kind of a cyborg.
Jay: Okay.
Simon: Um, where he'd been, like, injured enough that he was, like, kind of rebuilt more, and was actually, like, a little bit robotic, and...ultimately, it just wasn't the movie that we made. It wasn't, we weren't making, like, Class of 1999. We, we were making a film that was every genre except, like, maybe, uh, musical. There's a lot of music.
Jay: I was gonna say, it's almost musical. This, this movie takes place in an alternate reality where everybody listens to synth wave.
Simon: Goth. It was industrial, like, goth. For some reason, I'd written into the script, so this, again, I'm from a fairly small town, and Adam's from a fairly small town. Um, and one thing that we were obsessed with is how, in small towns, you can be kind of a subculture of one. Like, like you can, you can through random things, especially now with the internet, you can be like, you can be, like, the one, I dunno, like, JoJo's Bizarre Adventure fan, in, like, like, you know, Otley, Iowa. You know, and, like, that's your thing.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: And, and, and, but nobody else knows what the hell you're talking about. And, so, you know, for the, for the character of Anna, you know, we were just kind of, like, this is, she kind of doesn't wanna be there anymore, and, like, or she has to stick around cuz her family's a wreck. And, like, how would we express that. And it's, like, she should just really be into, like, goth industrial music from the 80's. Like, one of the unique ways Adam and I work is we give each other kind of a lot of creative space, um, cuz we just are good friends. We trust each other. So Adam usually has no idea what I'm writing when I'm writing it, in terms of, like, plot or character or anything. But, you know, obviously, if he's gonna direct a film, you know, obviously, if he sees a script and doesn't like it, uh, he doesn't have to direct it. That hasn't happened yet, fortunately. Um, but, like, um, but, but I, but I, I, you know, I try, I wanna show him, like, a finished script that I'm pretty happy with so he can react to it like a viewer would. And similarly, I stay out of the editing room until he has a fairly complete cut. So I can approach it with fresh eyes and be kind of, like, actually, I don't think we need this scene anymore. Cuz he's been working for seven days to get that scene perfect. And maybe, you know, it, it, it's a way to utilize the fact that there's two of us. And, but, with this particular film, you know, Adam and I were, were both really, you know, we really, we kind of both clicked on this idea, and I was, like, I got it, just give me a couple of weeks, and, um, and Adam would just start sending, like, he wouldn't ask me anything, he wouldn't put pressure on me to be, like, what's, can you give me a hint, like, what's it about, like, but he would be, like, are you making a movie that can have this song in it, are you writing a movie that can have this song in it, are you writing an action scene that can have this song in it. Almost all of the songs ended up, we, we were very lucky, our producer, um, our producer on that film, Keith Calder, is very good at somehow convincing people to give you other music for not a lot of money.
Jay: Well, that, that collaboration between the two of you is interesting because, like, you were saying, you gotta script that was, like, uh, like a, like a post-war thing.
Simon: It was like a pretentious failure.
Jay: And, and Adam Wingard wanted to make a schlocky Terminator movie, and I think that's reflective of the movie, cuz it, kind of much like You're Next, it kind of starts as one thing, and gradually becomes something else.
Simon: Yeah, and, and, and some people like that, and some people don't. Um, but, like, uh, but, yeah, that was kind of it. It was, it was, like, we had this, we had this first act that really, especially because the film did premier at Sundance, The Guest, you know, you could tell in the theater, uh, you know, it's the first time, really, anyone had seen the movie, and you could tell for the first 20-30 minutes, people were just, like, this is from, like, the You're Next guys? Like, I thought this was gonna be, like, mildly enjoyable.
Jay: When's somebody gonna get a blender shoved down their head?
Simon: Uh, I, I would say that something I really love, I'm a, I'm a huge Jackie Chan fan, and I love movies that have an escalation to them. Um, and I love that movies that, that do transform, and, and, and build to something. And, you know, The Guest, once I wrote the ending, I was, like, well, this goes completely off the rails. But, like, if we can earn this, if we can, if we can tonally make a film that, like, earns this, um...
Jay: Yeah. Well, that's the thing, it, it gets increasingly more, I guess, silly, more absurd, less, less realistic.
Simon: I would say so.
Jay: But the tone never changes. It's like it's never winking at you.
Simon: Well, you can tell, like, like, when, when, again, spoilers, um, when he kills the parents, we lose a lot of people. Um, for us, we were, like, no, that's, we still think this is funny. Um, but, but we were, we, we were trying to, uh, you know, like, like, actually, Survive, one of the artists that we used in The Guest, uh, you know, does, does Stranger Things, the, the score for Stranger Things, I believe, um, and I think the Duffer Brothers have said in interviews that they, uh, discovered their music from watching You're...The Guest. And there's some kind of shared DNA there, cuz, like, like, one of the things I always liked about those 80's movies is that the kids always know what's going on, and the parents are always clueless.
Jay: Mm-hmm.
Simon: And I also thought there was something really fun about that. And that was something we wanted The Guest to be. We knew, we knew we were doing an 80's homage with all the Halloween and Terminator stuff, but we didn't want to set it in the 80's. We didn't want to stylistically make an homage cuz that, um, to me, is, is just, you know, people have done it before.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: Um, but, it's fun, to me, like, the right way to do an homage is to take, like, you know, kind of familiar ingredients, and try to find a new spin on them. To me, like, it was important that the parents be, like, at best, kind of just, like, irrelevant to the narrative of, of The Guest. Like, like, at best they're just kind of, like, clueless.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: And, and at worst, they're kind of actively, like, like a toxic factor in their kids' lives. Um, though, though well-meaning.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: Cuz I didn't want it to be, like, a depressing film.
Jay: I like Leland Orser as the dad.
Simon: He's so good.
Jay: Uh, whenever I see him, all I can think about is his brief scene in Se7en. It's, like, bone-chilling.
Simon: Yeah, which I think is, like, one of the first, uh, one of his first roles.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: And it's, like, and everyone, uh, everyone knows him from that. Now he's in the Taken movies.
Jay: Oh, is he?
Simon: Yeah.
Jay: I've never seen any of those.
Simon: Oh.
Jay: Is he, does he get taken?
Simon: No, no. He, he, uh, well, maybe he gets taken in the third one. I, I, sorry, Leland. I bailed at a certain point. Um, he's one of, like, Liam Neeson's drinking buddies.
Jay: Okay.
Simon: Who, like, who, like, tells other...
Jay: Until he gets taken.
Simon: Yeah.
Jay: But, uh, but as the dad, I like, uh, like you said, he's kind of clueless, and there's, like, the part when he's complaining to, uh, to Anna about her no-good boyfriend. And he just sounds so out-of-touch.
Simon: He, he's, he, I mean, he's a wonderful actor, and, and again, someone I hope to work with for the rest of my career. He's, he's fantastic. But he also is, like, unusually at, at getting very silly while still grounding it in somewhat of a reality.
Jay: Yeah, well, that's the thing. His scenes are very funny, but he's playing it completely serious.
Simon: Yeah, I mean, just the way he, he asks David, and if he wants a drink.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: Uh, which, like, you know, in this script it was written as, his character, Spencer, uh, is an alcoholic, but it was fairly subtle.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: I wanted it to, again, be kind of realistic to what that is, which is just, here's a guy who clearly has a problem. But, yeah, it became, like, a bit for him at, like, the constant drinking thing.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: Like, he, he, it gave him a lot of wiggle room to do kind of funny things. I think that The Guest was, like, finally, people were kind of, like, oh, this is this very specific, like, sense of humor that they have, and either I like it or I don't.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: I certainly don't begrudge anyone who doesn't think we're funny, and thinks we're annoying. I, I, I have several people in my personal life who feel that way. But, like, but that was, like, with, with The Guest, we're, like, this is really funny.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: And, and, and then, like, like, someone would be, like, how, how or why is it funny? There's, like, no jokes. And we're, like, look, we're ma-, look at what we're doing.
Jay: Well, I think when it comes to, like, and The Guest isn't exclusively this, but there's an aspect of it where it's, like, b-movie homage.
Simon: Oh, yeah.
Jay: Uh, and people expect, like, I don't know, like Planet Terror, like the Robert Rodriguez parts, where it's way more overt.
Simon: Yeah.
Jay: And it feels like they're not even taking the project seriously.
Simon: But that again falls in that category of what we were just talking about, which is homages that are stylistic homages.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: Which I just, I just don't, like, like, if you're putting, like, fake grain on a movie or something like that, it's just, like, I don't know what you're, what you're doing.
Jay: Right.
Simon: Like, like, I mean, you can do a grain pass on a digital film. It actually looks quite good. But, that's, but, like...
Jay: You're not adding scratches and hair.
Simon: Yeah, or if you're shooting something, like, specifically done to make it look like a film of that era, I, I just don't know what the point is, cuz there are so many films of that era.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: And, and to me, that's, like, just a very lazy thing that, that's become kind of fashionable in, in, in, particularly in indie genre filmmaking is this, like, oh, like, this is, like, from, um, the sev-, this looks like it's from the seventies.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: Except for, except we shot it on, like, a shitty camera for some reason.
Jay: Well, that, that's something I wanted to mention is the, The Guest came out in 2014. The only thing I could think of that really reminded, that I felt, like, had a similarity in terms of, like, style or music choice was, like, Drive. 
Simon: Yeah.
Jay: And I saw peoplel compare it to Drive, even though, the two movies, nothing alike. I think it's just the music and the fact that they Dan Stevens kind of has, uh, a, uh, Ryan Gosling look to him.
Simon: Yeah.
Jay: But, but, when i saw The Guest, I was like, oh, man, this is right up my alley, like, the, the visual style of the movie, all the, the music, and all the Halloween stuff. And then, it, but it felt, like, fresh and different, and now you have, like, Stranger Things doing, like, the, like, I didn't even realize that was the same, uh, people doing the music.
Simon: Yeah, well, Steve, Steve Moore did the score for The Guest, uh...
Jay: Sure.
Simon: He was from the band, Zombie. But we had a track by Survive.
Jay: But, uh, but, yeah, now, I mean, since The Guest, there's been so many of these, like, yeah, we have synth wave on the soundtrack.
Simon: Yeah. Oh, yeah, now everything has that Carpenter score.
Jay: It, it looks like an 80's movie.
Simon: Yeah, I wanna be clear, when we use the Carpenter font for The Guest, that was before every other movie had done that. Um, but, yeah, like, like, now people figured out that, like, that, that 80's kind of style synth score is, like, kind of instantly compelling in certain ways, but, but to me it's kind of frustrating cuz I, I think that's such a specific thing.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: Um, and I don't, you know, you're not gonna see, like, Adam or I do that. I think, again, I mean, we, we certainly might work with Steve Moore again. He's a wonderful composer. But, like, for that particular film, Steve was actually using, like, the specific equipment cuz he's, like, tracked it down and bought it that, like, John Carpenter used to write the score to Halloween III: Season of the Witch.
Jay: Oh...
Simon: Cuz he's using the exact keyboards.
Jay: Oh, wow.
Simon: Like, this antique equipment, we really were, like, and, and I mean, Steve didn't do that for our film. We didn't give him nearly enough money to do that. But he had done that on his own, and, and Adam was kind of, like, I want you to use, like, that's what I want you to use. So we were really trying to be authentic, uh, little realizing that we were, like, the death knell of a creatively bankrupt industry. Um, and Nick Refn, by the way, uh, absolutely, like, like, uh, totally, like, like Razz does for ripping off Drive, like...
Jay: It's nothing like Drive. I've seen people compare it, and I don't get it.
Simon: We, we were, we, we were way in production on The Guest before, like, like, I mean, we'd seen, we'd seen Drive, obviously.
Jay: If, if you ever wanna feel better about that, look up the interview that, uh, William Friedkin did with Nicolas Winding Refn.
Simon: Did you see our interview with Nic Refn?
Jay: No.
Simon: Oh, Nic Refn went, went, went full Friedkin on us.
Jay: Well, Friedkin went full Friedkin on Refn, so...
Simon: No, we found out, we found out that we were just part of a cycle of bullying. Uh, but at the time, we were just, like, why is Nic Refn being so mean to us? We really like his work. Um, yeah...
Jay: You know who else likes his work? Him.
Simon: Well, is, is that, I, I, I didn't get that from the fact that his name is imprinted on his titles, and often obscures them. Um...
Jay: It works perfectly for Neon Demon, though.
Simon: He's a lovely guy.
Jay: His, his, uh, yeah, his initials at the beginning of Neon Demon.
Simon: Oh, like the little monogram? Yeah.
Jay: It looks like, uh, it looks like a perfume ad. It makes sense for that movie.
Simon: No, I mean, Adam and I are fans for, like, like, the first Pusher. Like, we, the, like, Nic Refn's work is one of those things that we, like, bonded over, so, it, even though he totally was really mean to us, it was, like, getting an interview with him was a complete honor. And then we found out that he was kind of, like, passing the torch.
Jay: Mmm.
Simon: In this, like, William Friedkin, and also apparently, Lars von Trier also was, there's also apparently somewhere out there a Lars von Trier interview with, uh, Nic Refn where Lars von Trier is also very rude to him. Lars von Trier, also, uh, notorious for putting his name in huge letters.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: Uh, superimposed over the titles of his films.
Jay: You can do that if you're a big weirdo.
Simon: Well, I, you know, and then, or, or John Carpenter's...
Jay: You can do that if you're John Carpenter.
Simon: Yeah. That, that I agree with.
Jay: Speaking of John Carpenter with The Guest, uh, I would say, aesthetically, there's some, obviously, kind of influence from John Carpenter.
Simon: Mm-hmm.
Jay: It doesn't feel, like, storywise, that was the case. What were any, like, sort of specific influences, storywise?
Simon: Again, this goes back to, like, like, wanting to take your inspirations from films in a way that's not, like, just a direct, obvious thing. Um, in some ways, I kind of feek like, uh, The Guest is a remake of Halloween, but it's very inverted. And, and one of the things, um, you know, that I remember Adam telling me about when we were first, you know, discussing the project in kind of broad terms is, you know, we'd just done our masked killers movie, and, and we wanted, like, to do the inverted Michael Myers, where Michael Myers is literally called, like, The Shape, because he's wearing that, you know, kind of, um, notoriously spray-painted, uh, William Shatner mask. And, and there's just nothing, he's a total blank.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: But what if your killer is someone who's nothing but their face?
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: What if they're...
Jay: And be super-likeable, charismatic...
Simon: What if your killer is all charm? Like a, like a, like a, like psychopaths in real life, you know, kind of notoriously are. They're very charming people. And, and that to us was very interesting. And, again, and there's specific things we're doing, there's, um, you know, there's prompts in The Guest that are, that are very specifically references to Halloween III.
Jay: But that's thing is, like, you say the, the build up of the movie, like, by the time you get to that point when you're at the, uh, the, the haunted maze at the end, you're, like, you can get away with that.
Simon: Yeah, Tom Hammock, our production designer, really got to have some fun with that stuff. But it, but it was, really was, like, there was a weird mandate of, like, we want as much as possible, we want as many references to Halloween III: Season of the Witch as we can possibly put in a film without ever, like, calling attention to itself.
Jay: Well, the fact that it's set around Halloween, I mean, those just look like they could be generic Halloween decorations.
Simon: But Halloween in New Mexico, which is just this, you know, cuz we weren't filming it in the fall, and, and there's something also about, like, I like, uh, seasons that don't look like they're supposed to, like, holidays that don't look right.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: But, I'd originally written it for the Pacific Northwest to be kind of, like, foggy and isolated, and it would be Halloween.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: With this damp, like, like, gray look. Um, but still no leaves on the ground. No, none of the staples of how Halloween, like, looks in films. Um, and then when we found that New Mexico was a lot cheaper, um, it was, like, oh, it'll just be more like a Western now. It'll just be blank, scorched, like, landscapes.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: And it'll be, like, oh, it's late October but it looks like, uh, July, and also, of course, we filmed it in July.
Jay: Well, that's what great is, I mean, just, it's still, even in that setting, it still feels very, like, Halloween season with all the, because it's like an overabundance of Halloween decorations.
Simon: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jay: Which I love, because, I mean, I love Halloween, so, that, that season...
Simon: Yeah, me too, well, us, too, obviously. Yeah.
Jay: And, it's great, too, because the movie doesn't necessarily need to be set around Halloween, but just by doing that, it adds a little, you know, extra flavor to the movie.
Simon: I love the idea of Halloween. As I get older, Halloween just means a night that I turn off my light so kids won't knock on my door. But, yeah, but I, but I love movie Halloween.
Jay: Sure.
Simon: Like, like, that's what I love.
Jay: That, that heightened, well, it's also nice that The Guest is, cuz that's, I mean, it, like, immediately became one of my, like, go-to October movies.
Simon: Yeah.
Jay: Um, and it's one of the rare ones that is like a Halloween season movie that you can watch that isn't a horror movie. I mean, it, it,...
Simon: Yeah.
Jay: ...it kind of is. There's slasher elements, but it's not, like, a horror film. So, it's like you and Hocus Pocus. And I'm not watching that shit.
Simon: Adam and I would both say that The Guest was very minimally a horror film, but we obviously wanted it to have, like, suspense and horror elements. Um, I, if anyone is scared by The Guest, I, I, I'm astonished. Like, but also, we were really surprised that, that some people found You're Next intense. We really thought we'd just made a very, you know, goofy black comedy. 
Jay: One thing that I think is interesting about the movie that probably, maybe frustrates some people is, you keep waiting throughout the whole movie, waiting for the exposition dump. And it never really happens. There's a couple little, like, allusions to things, but you never really know what this character is up to, or what his backstory is. They mention something about an experiment at one point, and there's a moment where it almost feels like you're trolling the idea of giving exposition when he's in the kitchen with the mom.
Simon: That was an intentional kind of joke, cuz, cuz we, cuz what had happened, truthfully, is in the script I had written quite a bit of exposition.
Jay: See, that's what I was wondering, if there was more, originally.
Simon: Both in that scene, and also there's a scene with Lance Reddick, uh, he's driving Maika to, to, to get her brother. And, and that was originally a much longer scene, and, and what we kind of discovered, not, not even in a filming phase, but just, like, really when we, when we're talking to Keith and Jess about the script, and really going through it, we were just, like, no one's gonna want this. Like, we don't need this, no one's gonna want it, like, like, it's better, it's better if we give, like, we can say, like, between us, we, this is what, this character's back hist-, backstory is.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: And, and so there's a coherent logic to, to what he does, and to what we're gonna tell Dan to do.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: And how we're gonna tell Dan to, like, do his readings, but, but as long as the audience feels that there's consistency to these choices, um, they're gonna wanna, they're gonna wanna come up with their own stuff. I mean, a surprising amount of people, and this wasn't intentional, have, have come to me, um, and, and suggested that he is, in fact, uh, the brother, the dead brother.
Jay: Mmm.
Simon: Um, that he's had, like, plastic surgery or something. And that David is Caleb. Caleb's the name of, of the, of the family's son who died. Um, who, who David made the promise to to check in on their family.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: And, and, like, our take on it was that, was that, is that's entirely sincere. David is entirely sincere in his miss-, mission.
Jay: Well, that's kind of how I interpreted it, and I was always curious about that, like, cuz he seems, I mean, he's helping the family out.
Simon: He is helping them, but he's...
Jay: He helps the dad get, uh, a promotion by killing his boss.
Simon: To me, the Luke character arc, uh, the younger brother played by Brendan Meyer, wonderful, wonderful actor as well, um, is, is, tells the, the true story of David as well as you can. Which is, David helps Luke in a very specific way.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: Which is he, he tells Luke to be a violent person, and to solve his problems with violence, and ultimately gives Luke a knife.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: Which Luke uses to stab David.
Jay: Right.
Simon: And David's, like, great.
Jay: Gives him the thumbs up.
Simon: You did it. Like, you learned what I was trying to teach you.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: Which is this world is a hellish, violent place, and your parents don't matter, and I killed them for you, don't worry. They were just a problem.
Jay: Right.
Simon: And, like, great job, guys. Um, and, and, you know, the legacy that the film's had is, is, has been really satisfying, cuz I think, you know, initially we kinda felt like we'd, we'd failed, like, with The Guest. Like, we, we, you know, we had, we kinda made our Magnolia. We'd had, like, our first real somewhat mainstream success with You're Next, which was a movie that we made for about $700,000 in, in my hometown. And, and we hoped it would get out there in the world, and it did. Uh, and we were very proud. Um, and we suddenly had the opportunity for the first time ever in our careers, we weren't just, like, what can we get made, but what do we wanna make? Like, what story do we wanna tell? Um, and that was what we came up with. And then we were kinda, like, oh, maybe we should never do this. And, and, and it actually is worth mentioning, you know, uh, that we, we signed up to do Blair Witch before we started making The Guest.
Jay: Oh, really?
Simon: Yeah, we'd signed up, we'd already signed up to do that film, uh, with Lionsgate. We were kinda, like, well, we're gonna have to take some time off if we're going to make this movie called The Guest. And they're, like, oh, that's fine. They just wanted to work with us because they liked working with us on You're Next, and we liked working with them, so it was, like, oh yeah, absolutely, we'll do a Blair Witch sequel for you guys, that sounds fantastic. Like, we're just gonna go off and do this other thing real quick.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: And, and so, in a weird way, though, like, the response to those two films in particular has made me realize that, like, no, we were right, we should keep making weird original movies. We just need to make sure that they somewhat make a profit. Like, we should make sure that there's someone in, someone in there for someone, cuz we don't just want to keep remaking these cult movies in the future. We want  to make movies that people actually see when they come out.
Jay: Well, the more, the more confused people are when a movie comes out, that's, uh, more likely it's going to be a cult movie down the line.
Simon: But that's not a satisfying thing if you're a filmmaker. I mean, we, like, like, Adam and I so often, like, have been asked this, like, we love you guys cuz you make these cult movies. And it's, like, all you're really saying is our movies are failures. Like, at the, like, they, like, people don't see them, and then, and then people do see them, and they're, like, oh, yeah, You're Next wasn't nearly as bad as everyone said it was. Like, thanks, thanks so much. But, like, you know, it would have really helped if, if you'd gone to see it in theaters. Um, you know, and, and, and, oh man, I can't tell you how many people ask me, uh, if we're gonna do a sequel to The Guest.
Jay: I was just about to jokingly say, so, sequel?
Simon: Yeah, I mean, like, jokingly, you say that, but, like...
Jay: Well, the movie has sequel-bait ending, but I assume that was a joke.
Simon: No, you know, look, it speaks for itself. A stand-, it's the, it's the same thing that we were talking about with exposition.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: It's, like, why would we ruin this? Like, if you like it, why would we spoil it? Like, it would just, it, it, why would we, why would we pander to the vocal 10% of fans that are pestering us for a sequel, and infuriate the silent 90% that just kind of like the movie and wanna be left alone? And, like, don't want us to milk it.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: Uh, again and again and again, and try to sell them, you know, Guest, uh, t-shirts, that, we didn actually do that, to be fair.
Jay: Is that, uh, Cavity, not Cavity Colors?
Simon: Cavity Colors, yeah.
Jay: Fright Rags, I get those two mixed up.
Simon: Yeah, Cavity Colors, uh, those guys, uh, reached out and are friendly, and we're, like, and we like their art, so we're, like, heck yeah.
Jay: I bought one of their boglin pins.
Simon: For us, it's just, like, hey, we like, we, we truly, I don't think we see, we don't see any money from that. That, that's just, like, a fun thing for the fans.
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: Like, and that's, to me, the right way to do it. It's, like, hey, if you like the film and you want a t-shirt of it...
Jay: Yeah.
Simon: ...we're not gonna, like, deny you that, but we're also not gonna, like, try to profit from your fandom. We came close to doing The Guest as a TV series. Um, with the studio that was interested, and that would have been more like Banshee, maybe, for example, where he, like, where it's about, like, him, he takes over a town, and, like, like, runs for mayor, and stuff, but he's, like, killing his opponents and stuff. That might've been creatively interesting, but ultimately, all these things just kinda fizzled out, cuz they just weren't right. It's, like, I'd rather, at the end of the day, I'd rather come up with another original idea and make another original film, and, and, you know, do something different, and if it's successful or not, I've learned that people will still pester me for a sequel. And, but, we made a sequel to V/H/S. There ya go.
Jay: And then they made a third one.
Simon: Mmm, yeah, well, yeah...
